From previous update

1. Install the new chip Quectel 160RM-GL M.2 and test it.

Chip delayed. It will arrive this week.

2. Install the Yagi antennas in the roof and get the adecuate coaxial RG213 50 ohms.Price 165 uruguayan peso per meter.

Still need the 50 ohms cable coaxial and the connectors. Antenna setup will be changed for a camera tripod at the floor level
to help move the setup to different environments for testing purposes. The roof idea is ok but is only for one place so it
doesn't allow for mobility.

3. Buy the pig tail to adapt for the SMA Male in the HAT antenna connectors.

Still haven't aquire the connectors

4. Reconfigure the Gigabit Ethernet with DHCP and 1 IP for a laptop, as well as the DNS of google.

This worked fined once. Then there was a configuration issue. Had to revert to factory the SD card. 
 
The dhcp can be changed for fixed configuration and the eth0 can be statically configured in etc/interfaces.

The laptop has to be configured accordingly with ip, mask, gateway and dns.

It worked at some stage but then it didn't. Just a small change and then there was no way to get it back up.

5. The configuration to toute packets from the laptop to the WWAN0 has to be done changing the ipforwarding to 1:
       root@raspberrypi:/proc/sys/net/ipv4# echo 1 > ip_forward
       root@raspberrypi:/proc/sys/net/ipv4# cat ip_forward
       
IP Forwarding can be changed in /etc/sysctl.conf file.       
       
6. After that the Iptables, NAT and Masqarade have to be turned on in the internet interface:
       iptable -t NAT -i wwan0 outgoing -j MASAQARADE
       
This is only for the NAT but it needs to connect the interfaces in both directions aswell with a couple of lines.

It also needs iptables-persistent software to be able to save the configuration after reboot.


7. At this stage the system should be able to give connectivity for the laptop and firewall should be considered to be configured.
Footer

I did't worked on the firewall yet. The ports are open I assume. Don't know even what firewall is operating on Raspbian yet.



Moving Forward:

1. The previous points need review and put into action.

2. There was an issue in the testing when the eth0 was forwarding to the wwan0 modem. It seems that the upload/download speed suffers some
loss and is reduced. This needs to be investigated. Maybe there is a workaround, creating a tunnel directly from eth0 to wwan0. In this way
it might be easier.

3. The modem manager accepts command lines via de mmcli and is very broad in options. The bands that can be used by the modem can be defined here.
This could be very important to activate all the bands for 5 carriers in carrier aggregation for the EM160-GL Quectel Cat-16 module, that
can get speeds up to 1Gbps in lab environment.






